(EN) Changes on input data of EXIOBASE 3.6

The underlying EXIOBASE 3.6 source database is under the Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) license, which mandates that the sequence of changes 
be described made to the source document. Accordingly, we describe below the adaptations made to the input data in the IMPACTECH_CZ_decarb version of the model.


Sectoral breakdown of the modeled sectors

We divide "Wind power generation" into "Onshore wind power generation" and "Offshore wind power generation". 
We divide "Solar photovoltaic power generation" into "Solar photovoltaic power generation - utility-scale" and "Solar photovoltaic power generation - residential". 
We classify PV plants with an installed capacity above 1 MW as utility-scale and below 1 MW as residential.

We divide the other modelled sectors in a similar way. "Steel and iron production" is divided into "Steel and iron production - Integrated mill (BF-BOF)", "Steel and 
Iron Production - Hydrogen Direct Reduction (H-DR)" and "Steel and Iron Production - CCS Smelting Reduction". "Cement production" is divided into "Cement production - 
Conventional Portland Cement (OPC)", "Cement Production - Kiln Electrification + Direct Separation (CCS)" and "Cement Production - CCS with Oxygen Fuel". "Plastics 
production" is further subdivided into "Plastics production - CCS Steam cracking (unchanged production process)", "Plastics production - Steam cracking + CCS + CCS at 
the end of the life cycle", "Plastics production - Electric steam cracking + CCS at the end of the life cycle", "Plastics production - Biomass feedstock". "Nitrogen 
fertiliser production" is subdivided into "Nitrogen fertiliser production - Steam methane reforming (SMR) for ammonia production", "Nitrogen fertiliser production - 
Steam methane reforming (SMR) with CCS" and "Nitrogen fertiliser production - Water electrolysis". Finally, the sector "Production of Motor Vehicle Manufacturing" is 
divided into "Motor Vehicle Manufacturing - Internal Combustion Engine" and "Motor Vehicle Manufacturing - Electric Vehicle: Hybrid + Plug-in hybrid + Battery + Fuel 
cell".


Update of employment data in detailed sectors

Original data from the EXIOBASE v3.6 database on the direct employment intensity (number of persons employed per MW of installed capacity of a given source) for 
individual sources of energy in the detailed electricity sectors has been updated and refined based on a comparison of data from other sources
(e.g., Cameron and van der Zwaan, 2015; Ortega et al., 2020; Ram et al., 2020; Rutovitz et al., 2015). This was due to the inconsistency of the original data with the 
vast majority of other available sources. The adaptation consists of replacing the employment intensity (employment factors) from EXIOBASE 3.6 in the modelled sectors 
with employment factors per unit of installed capacity in MW given in the studies (Ram et al., 2020; Rutovitz et al., 2015; SolarPower Europe, 2015) and converting 
them to the number of jobs per million EUR (of a given base year, i.e. 2015) using data on the installed capacity of each source (broken down by sector) from Capros et 
al. (2016) and data cost (price) per MW of installed capacity from Carlsson et al. (2014) - for non-renewable, solar thermal, geothermal and tidal energy - and 
according to the International Renewable Energy Agency (2019) for other renewables. Given the absence of certain technologies in the current form energy mix and the 
lack of data on electricity generation from biomass and biogas in the country, employment intensity for these technologies was also replaced with data from other 
countries (from the same expert sources cited above) using indicative criteria of geographical proximity and comparability of purchasing power, as follows:
Wind (offshore) - Germany; Biomass, Biogas and Waste + Geothermal - Austria; Solar Thermal - Spain; Tidal Energy - France.

We took a similar approach to replacing employee accounts in the other modelled sectors. To do this, we use employment data by number of persons for 2015 
provided on request by the Czech Statistical Office (CZSO). Given that the CZSO data lack detail at the level of skill levels and gender, we have disaggregated 
into these categories proportionally according to the baseline data from EXIOBASE 3.6.


Sector (EXIOBASE 3.6 codes)						  Employment - EXIOBASE 3.6 (persons), 2015	  Employment - CZSO (persons), 2015
Manufacture of iron, steel and ferro-alloys [...] (i27.a+i27.a.w)	    14 798							23 419
Manufacture of cement, lime and plaster (i26.d+i26.d.w)				    12 078							2 052
Manufacture of plastics in primary forms (i24.a+i24.a.w)			    171							5 085
Manufacture of fertilisers and nitrogen compounds (i24.b)				      1 373							1 668
Manufacture of motor vehicles (except motorcycles), trailers and semi-trailers (i34)	  167 447							225 287

--

(CZ) Změny na vstupních datech databáze EXIOBASE 3.6

Základní zdrojová databáze modelu EXIOBASE 3.6 je v režimu licence Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0), která nařizuje popsat sekvenci změn
uskutečněných na zdrojovém dokumentu. V souladu s tím níže popisujeme adaptace uskutečněné na vstupních datech ve verzi modelu IMPACTECH_CZ_decarb.


Rozčlenění sektorů v modelovaných odvětvích

Rozdělujeme "Výrobu elektřiny z větrné energie" na "Výrobu elektřiny z větrné energie onshore" a "Výrobu elektřiny z větrné energie offshore". 
"Výrobu elektřiny ze solární fotovoltaiky" dělíme na "Výrobu elektřiny ze solární fotovoltaiky - velkoplošné" a "Výrobu elektřiny ze solární fotovoltaiky - maloplošné". 
Fotovoltaické elektrárny s instalovaným výkonem nad 1 MW klasifikujeme jako užitkové (velkoplošné) a pod 1 MW jako rezidenční (maloplošné).

Podobným způsobem rozdělujeme další modelovaná odvětví. "Výroba oceli a železa" je rozdělena na "Výroba oceli a železa - Integrovaný mlýn (BF-BOF)", "Výroba oceli a 
železa - Přímá redukce vodíkem (H-DR)" a "Výroba oceli a železa - Redukce tavení pomocí CCS". "Výroba cementu" je rozdělena na "Výroba cementu - Běžný portlandský 
cement (OPC)", "Výroba cementu - Elektrifikace pece + přímá separace (CCS)" a "Výroba cementu - CCS s kyslíkovým palivem". "Výroba plastů" dále na "Výroba plastů - 
Parní krakování (nezměněný výrobní postup)", "Výroba plastů - Parní krakování + CCS + CCS na konci životního cyklu", "Výroba plastů - Elektrické parní krakování + 
CCS na konci životního cyklu", "Výroba plastů - Vstupní suroviny z biomasy". "Výrobu dusíkatých hnojiv" dělíme na "Výroba dusíkatých hnojiv - Parní reformace metanu 
(SMR) pro výrobu čpavku", "Výroba dusíkatých hnojiv - Parní reformace metanu (SMR) s CCS" a "Výroba dusíkatých hnojiv - Elektrolýza vody". Konečně, sektor "Výroba 
motorových dopravních prostředků" rozdělujeme na "Výroba motorových dopravních prostředků - Spalovací motor" a "Výroba motorových dopravních prostředků - Elektromobil: 
Hybrid + Plug-in hybrid + Bateriový + Na palivové články".


Aktualizace dat o zaměstnanosti v detailně členěných sektorech

Původní data z databáze EXIOBASE v3.6 ohledně přímé intenzity zaměstnanosti (počtu zaměstnaných osob na MW instalované kapacity daného zdroje) u jednotlivých zdrojů
energie v detailně členěných sektorech elektroenergetiky byla aktualizována a zpřesněna na základě porovnání údajů z ostatních zdrojů
(např. Cameron and van der Zwaan, 2015; Ortega et al., 2020, 2015; Ram et al., 2020; Rutovitz et al., 2015). Důvodem byl nesoulad původních dat s drtivou většinou
ostatních dostupných zdrojů. Adaptace spočívá v nahrazení intenzity zaměstnanosti (faktorů zaměstnanosti) z EXIOBASE 3.6 v modelovaných sektorech faktory zaměstnanosti
na jednotku instalované kapacity v MW uvedenými ve studiích (Ram et al., 2020; Rutovitz et al., 2015; SolarPower Europe, 2015) a jejich konverzi na počet pracovních míst
na milion EUR (daného základního roku, tj. roku 2015) za pomoci dat ohledně instalované kapacity každého zdroje (členěno dle sektorů) dle dat Capros et al. (2016) a data
ohledně nákladů (ceny) na MW instalované kapacity dle Carlsson et al. (2014) - pro neobnovitelné zdroje, solární termální energii, geotermální energii a přílivovou
energii - a dle International Renewable Energy Agency (2019) pro ostatní obnovitelné zdroje. Vzhledem k nepřítomnosti určitých technologií v současné podobě
energetického mixu a chybějícím údajům k výrobě elektřiny z biomasy a bioplynu v ČR byla rovněž nahrazena intenzita zaměstnanosti pro tyto technologie daty z jiných
zemí (z týchž odborných zdrojů, citovaných výše) za využití indikativních kritérií geografické blízkosti a porovnatelnosti kupní síly, a to následovně: Větrná energie
(offshore) - Německo; Biomasa, bioplyn a odpad + Geotermální energie - Rakousko; Solární termální energie - Španělsko; Přílivová energie - Francie.

Podobným způsobem jsme přistoupili k nahrazení zaměstnaneckých účtů v ostatních modelovaných sektorech. K tomu využíváme data o zaměstnanosti podle počtu osob za rok 2015 
poskytnutá na vyžádání Českým statistickým úřadem (ČSÚ). Vzhledem k tomu, že údaje z ČSÚ postrádají podrobnost na úrovni stupňů kvalifikace a pohlaví, rozdělili jsme 
je do těchto kategorií proporcionálně podle výchozích dat z EXIOBASE 3.6.


Sektor (EXIOBASE 3.6 kódy)						Zaměstnanost dle EXIOBASE 3.6 (počet osob), rok 2015	Zaměstnanost dle ČSÚ (počet osob), rok 2015
Výroba surového železa, oceli a feroslitin [...] (i27.a+i27.a.w)	14 798							23 419
Výroba cementu, vápna a sádry (i26.d+i26.d.w)				12 078							2 052
Výroba plastů v primárních formách (i24.a+i24.a.w)			171							5 085
Výroba hnojiv a dusíkatých sloučenin (i24.b)				1 373							1 668
Výroba motorových vozidel (kromě motocyklů), přívěsů a návěsů (i34)	167 447							225 287

